---
meeting: BBS group meeting
location: Scopia
date: 16/12/2014
present: Shane, Mingshu, Roy, Marcus, Rudi, Patrick, Rob, Rebecca, Aurelie, Roger, Ruy, Alan.
---

#### Update on Moa testing on NZGL VM -- Mingshu, Roy, Marcus
* Mingshu: from a user perspective, it works. 
* Marcus : the install on VM seems to work fine
* Shane: currently 2 installs but only one will remain (the on that can run on the cluster)

#### VCF plugin scripts -- first side path from original scripts
* Rob: The after-Tassel life: plugin to create and filter vcf files. Documentation to be made available.
* Rebecca: filtering includes depth in a “genotype quality” score.  

#### TASSEL Version -- Report on conversation with Katie Hyma 
* Katie is using Tassel 3 as it is well documented, published and the SNP caller is well known ( in Tassel 4, some behaviour is still unexplained). We should and will move to Tassel 3 (not Tassel 4 as previously planned).

#### Aligners -- do we want to test the options?
* Marcus: has already tested a few of the artefacts and bias (not in a BBS context) of some aligners so it can be a good starting point. Marcus will share his reproducible workflow. 

#### QC -- What have people been doing? Should we have a meeting on just this topic?
* Mingshu: coefficient of variation, script in R, is a good indicator but it requires quite a big computer with large dataset ….
* Rob: we should keep indicators if we need them and find another solution to this problem. We should also make sure the number of packages and dependencies is as low as possible. 
* Patrick: why would dependencies be a problem as we want to provide a VM or packages? QC before Tassel or within Tassel?
* Shane: is happy to package things so it is easy for other people to install providing we all use the same base (CentOS , same version …) Independent QC meeting needed as there are much more things to talk about. It will be organised in January.

#### Next Steps 
1.	Testing Moa scripts on real data sets.
It will be done avec the Christmas break .
2.	Thinking longer term -- Kea integration
we need to think about the key file needed by Kea and how to integrate this into BBS work.
3.	Documentation??
Decisions need to be made early next year about how to make the documentation available.

#### Conferences 
1.	EResearch 2015 (23-25 March) 
There is a BBS workshop in preparation for this conference (in Queenstown). People who are interested in presenting something should let Rob know.
2.	ISMB (July)
There is a possibility to have another BBS workshop at ISMB (in Dublin ) if some people are interested as well.

#### GitHub tutorials -- Volunteers to run a VC based tutorial?
Would it be possible to have some kind of Github tutorial (in a VC) early February?  Marcus will look into it as they have some material ready at plant and food. 
Rudi indicated this https://www.udacity.com/course/ud775 (not free).
#### How we communicate / work 
1.	Do way have too many sites to visit to sort out what is going on?
There might be too many tools …
Roy suggested zapier https://zapier.com/ to link things together, he’ll have a look.
We could also use more of the github pages (wiki) to keep things together.
Patrick: what about the name, it changed from GBS to BBS but people seem confused and don’t know which one to use. We might also need a mission statement on a welcome page. 
Rob will write something and circulate it.
http://www.biospectrabysequencing.org/ now available for us to use.
2.	Can we consolidate?
3.	Best practices guide
Rebecca, Rachel and Rob have started a best practice for the wet lab part (as asked during the mapnet workshop). Rob to sketch one for the bioinformatics part. Marcus would come for help. 
